[Applause]
despite the horrors of Israel's war on
Gaza at this toy shop in Rafa children
and adults seek a bit of
fun customers are looking for gifts to
give during what's supposed to be a
festive season but shopkeeper Ahmed is
says this Ramadan and are nothing like
years
past there is no joy or appetite for
celebrating the holy occasions even
children they have no interest in toys
as was in the past this is the worst
season we have ever
lived a sentiment resoundingly echoed
throughout this Eid
Market at this clothing store sales
would typically be booming in the final
days of
Ramadan but this year it's
different last year we used to keep our
shops open until the early hours of the
next morning throughout the month of
Ramadan these days we open at 10:00 a.m.
and close at 5:00 p.m.
there are about 1.5 million displaced
Palestinians Sheltering in the southern
Gaza City of
Rafa they are among those most in
need we are suffering on all fronts
people can hardly survive can hardly
feed their families we no longer think
of Aid or celebration or any other form
of
joy and while Joy may be in short supply
it doesn't stop others from doing all
they can to uphold some holiday
traditions
honestly it's very tough especially
staying in a tent instead of our house
in this warm weather however we're
trying our best to uplift ourselves
we're attempting to create a Eid
Atmosphere by making Eid cakes which has
been very challenging imagine preparing
he cakes when there's no water or food
available with some in Gaza now facing
famine and with worries only increasing
that Israel's promised ground invasion
of RA may start at any time finding the
right ingredients to make these spiced
holiday sweets has been extremely
difficult we are using very basic
ingredients we used to buy the
ingredients at an affordable price
however everything is now expensive
simina and dates are now way more
expensive so we are trying for instance
to use less date paste to stuff the
cookies as well as reducing the ghee the
flour and other ingredients that are now
scarce but in this makeshift shelter
scarcity is no match for resilience
where these Palestinian women and girls
find little Solace but do everything in
their power to find and give a bit of
comfort Muhammad jamj Al
jaaz make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jaaz